The following is an excerpt from my blog, titled "A Self-Guided Exploration of Some of the Motion Planning and Control Algorithms Used for Autonomous Quadcopter Flight". This article discusses my initial motivation for pursuing the project.


## The Preface 
My name is Ronen Aniti, and I am a college graduate with a Bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from The University of Texas at Austin’s Cockrell School of Engineering. I graduated from that degree program in December of 2016. After graduating, I became a professional private tutor, founding a business called Ronen Redefines Tutoring, through which I have not only helped over 250 students prepare for standardized tests and college entrance but also deepened my interest in logical reasoning and mathematics. For the past two years, I have been considering transitioning careers to become an engineer or a scientist. I want to put my skills on display, so I am taking it upon myself to prove them with a project. That’s what this report will be about.

## The Background
I am writing this report as I complete the first milestone of the project. The project involves developing a path planning program in Python to aid a virtual quadcopter in navigating a simulated model environment of a San Francisco city block. I found this project on a website called Udacity, the educational platform that offers Nanodegree credentials for a variety of interesting topics, from data science to autonomous vehicles. It’s the latter subject that piqued my interest when I first visited the site, in search of a project to work on. Three things stood out to me about the Flying Car and Autonomous Flight Nanodegree: the math was involved, there would be projects, and I was eligible for a discount. It wasn’t just those things, though. The program offered an opportunity to learn a new skill set and to introduce myself to a new topic. The Nanodegree seemed like it would be a challenge that–if I were to follow through with completing–could prove rewarding. That’s exactly what I was looking for.

There are three components to the nanodegree: there’s lecture material that provides high-level coverage of concepts, there’re the programming exercises following each module, which provide an opportunity to implement the concept being taught, and there’re projects that follow each of the main sections of the course. I am writing this report as I complete the project that follows the first main section, which is on a topic called path planning. Ahead lies a project involving developing a control system for an simulated autonomous quadcopter, a project involving developing a state estimation algorithm for a simulated autonomous quadcopter, and a project involving developing a control system for a simulated autonomous fixed-wing aircraft. If you don’t know what those things are, don’t worry. Actually, I hardly do. This project, that I am sharing with you here, is the beginning of my journey in discovering what they are about.

The topic of path planning, which itself is a subtopic of the more general notion of motion planning, is the idea of developing algorithms to enable an autonomous vehicle to find its way around its own physical environment in a safe manner–so without colliding with obstacles like trees, people, or buildings. In the case of this project, the autonomous vehicle is a computer model of a quadcopter drone that exists inside of a simulation program called the Flying Car Nanodegree Simulator, developed by Udacity. For now, the simulator will handle what are called the “low-level” controls for the quadcopter, namely controlling the rotation rates of each motor. What I will be focusing on is developing code in Python that will, provided with some start location within the city block and some goal location within the city block, produce a sequence of waypoints, a path, for the drone to follow in order to reach the destination safely. 
